# dbtZres

This script is used to analyze a DBT image of the updated ACR quality assurance mammography phantom for the z-axis resolution measurements. It crops the image to the section covering the largest few speck groups and the left and chest edges of the wax insert. The "in-focus" slice is determined from the maximum pixel value of the reduced image area. This maximum should correspond to the slice where the specks are the brightest. Within this slice, the wax insert edges are found using local minima, from which the location of the largest speck group is determined. The script assumes the phantom has been set up without too much rotation with respect to the detector. From the location of the largest speck group, the script measures the maxima from all six specks over a range of +/- 3 slices (adjustable with nn variable). The script also records the mean background value for each slice from a location between the 10 o'clock and 12 o'clock specks. The maxima are averaged on a per-slice basis, and all results are printed in a tsv format to be pasted into the ACR spreadsheet. A montage of the analyzed slices and the ROIs is presented to the user for visual verification of the placement and to be pasted into the spreadsheet.

To use the script, open the DBT DICOM image and the script in ImageJ (which can be accomplished by dragging the files and dropping them on the ImageJ toolbar). Once open, run the macro by selecting *Macros* > *Run Macro* and the script should process. Version 1.9 automatically copies the tsv to the clipboard. After pasting, the user can select to copy the montage and close the various windows. The user can paste the montage in the spreadsheet for visual confirmation of processing. Version 1.10 removes the presented results to the user and instead allows the user to save the results to a text file and the montage to an image file. The update for 1.10 was written to allow the user to run the software directly on a mammography system (Hologic, specifically) on a USB drive. The results can then be pasted/imported on a separate computer without needing to send the DBT image to PACS or other external device. 
